# 1.1

### 1.1.1 What is the difference between a compiler and an interpreter?

Whereas compiler translates program with source langauge to a program with target language, interpreter on the other hand directly executes the operations specified in source program.

### 1.1.2 What are the advantages of: (a) a compiler over an interpreter (b) an interpreter over a compiler?

#### (a)

Target program produced by a compiler is usually much faster than an interpreter at mapping inputs to outputs.

#### (b)

An interpreter can usually give better error diagnostics than a compiler, because it executes source program statement by statement.

### 1.1.3 What advantages are there to a language processing system in compiler produces assembly language rather than machine language?

Assembly language is easier to produce as output and easier to debug.

### 1.1.4 A compiler that translates a high-level language into another high-level language is called a source-to-source translator. What advantages are there to using C as a target language for a compiler?

C compilers are avaliable for any platform, which makes your language avaliable on any platform and architecture where C is avaliable. C compilers optimize agressively aswell.

### 1.1.5 Describe some of the tasks that an assembler needs to perform.

1. Read input line from ASM file.
2. Parse the opcode.
3. Based on the opcode, ASM parser knows the next word. At this point it has 8 bits which needs to be translated into the instruction.
4. 8 bits is written to a binary file as two character hex number.
5. Repeat from step one until all instructions are processed.




